.TH CMAIL-ADMIN-POPD 8 "August 2015" "v0.1" "cmail Administration Tools"
.SH NAME
cmail-admin-popd \- Manage POP3 access to cmail mailboxes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "cmail-admin-popd [ --dbpath " "master-database-file" " ] [ --verbosity " N
.BI " | -v " N " ] [ --help | -h ] " "mode" " "  "mode-options"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cmail-admin-popd
configures access to cmail mailboxes via the POP3 daemon. In order to be able to
access mail via POP3,
.BR cmail-popd (8)
must be running, the accessing user must have the use of POP enabled by this tool and
present valid credentials, which may be configured by 
.BR cmail-admin-user (8) .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI "--dbpath " master-database-file ", -d " master-database-file
Select an alternate master database file instead of the default
.IR /etc/cmail/databases/master.db3 .
This overrides the database path provided by the
.B CMAIL_MASTER_DB
environment variable.
.TP
.BI "--verbose " N ", -v " N
Increase verbosity on a scale of
.B 0
to 
.B 4
.TP
.B "--help, -h"
Print helpful hints about operating the program
.SH FILES
.I /etc/cmail/databases/master.db3
.RS
Default path of the master database when installed system-wide. May be overridden either by specifying the
.B CMAIL_MASTER_DB
environment variable or by supplying the
.BR "--dbpath " parameter.
.SH MODES

.TP
.BI "list " [expression]
List all users currently able to access their mail via POP, as well as their current lock state. 
Optionally, filter the list for entries matching
.IR expression "."

.TP
.BI "enable " "user"
Enable POP access for a user.
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-popd enable cbdev
.RE

.TP
.BI "disable " user
Disable POP access for a user.
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-popd disable cbdev
.RE

.TP
.BI "unlock " "user"
Unlock the maildrop for a user. This is an emergency option and should only be used after making sure
there are no more active connections to the mailbox.
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-popd unlock cbdev
.RE

.SH BUGS
For a discussion of pitfalls and possible sources of misconfigurations refer to the CAVEATS.txt file in the source distribution.
.SH AUTHORS
 Jan "mpease" Duepmeier <me at mpease dot de>  
 Fabian "cbdev" Stumpf <fjs at fabianstumpf dot de>  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Online documentation and homepage at http://cmail.rocks/
.PP
.BR cmail-admin-address (8),
.BR cmail-admin-smtpd (8),
.BR cmail-admin-user (8),
.BR cmail-smtpd (8),
.BR cmail-popd (8),
.BR cmail-dispatchd (8),
.BR cmail-master-database (5)

