.TH CMAIL-ADMIN-USER 8 "August 2015" "v0.1" "cmail Administration Tools"
.SH NAME
cmail-admin-user \- Manage cmail users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "cmail-admin-user [ --dbpath " "master-database-file" " ] [ --verbosity " N
.BI " | -v " N " ] [ --help | -h ] " "mode" " "  "mode-options"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cmail-admin-user
allows the administrator of a cmail server system to list, add, modify and delete
user accounts and their login credentials.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI "--dbpath " master-database-file ", -d " master-database-file
Select an alternate master database file instead of the default
.IR /etc/cmail/databases/master.db3 .
This overrides the database path provided by the
.B CMAIL_MASTER_DB
environment variable.
.TP
.BI "--verbose " N ", -v " N
Increase verbosity on a scale of
.B 0
to 
.B 4
.TP
.B "--help, -h"
Print helpful hints about operating the program
.SH FILES
.I /etc/cmail/databases/master.db3
.RS
Default path of the master database when installed system-wide. May be overridden either by specifying the
.B CMAIL_MASTER_DB
environment variable or by supplying the
.BR "--dbpath " parameter.
.SH MODES

.TP
.BI "list " [expression]
List all users currently known to the system. Optionally, filter the list for entries matching
.IR expression "."

.TP
.BI "add " "username [password]"
Create a new user and update the login credentials if supplied. User names must be unique.
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-user add cbdev donotusethisasyourpassword
.RE

.TP
.BI "revoke " user
Reset the password for the specified user. This causes all login attempts for the user to be
rejected. Note that the system will still accept mail on the users behalf, as
.BR revoke " only invalidates the login credentials, not the account."
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-user revoke cbdev
.RE

.TP
.BI "password " "user [password]"
Update the password for the specified user to a new one. If none is supplied, the password is
queried interactively.
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-user passwd cbdev anotherbadpassword
.RE

.TP
.BI "alias " "user [alias]"
.RI "Mark " user " as an alias for " alias ". This functionality enables " alias " to have multiple virtual"
.RI "passwords, thus allowing safe sharing of a mailbox. Take note that " user " will only be able to access"
.RI "mail stored to " alias ". This operation can be undone by not specifying the " alias " parameter."
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-user alias cbdev cdbev
.RE

.TP
.BI "userdb " "user [path]"
.RI "Have all mail stored for " user " be physically located in an SQLite database at " path ". The user database"
.RI "must conform to the schema outlined in the cmail developer documentation, such as databases created with"
.BR cmail-admin-database (8).
.IR path " should always be an absolute path, as the working directory of processes accessing the user databases"
is subject to change. User databases and the directory containing them must be read- and writable by the user
running the cmail daemons.
.RI "This change can be reversed by not specifying " path ". Note that mail stored in a user database"
that is no longer known to the system can not be retrieved via the cmail suite.
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-user userdb cbdev /home/cbdev/mail.db3
.RE

.TP
.BI "delete " user
Delete a specific user
.RS
.B Example:
$ cmail-admin-user delete cbdev
.RE

.SH BUGS
For a discussion of pitfalls and possible sources of misconfigurations refer to the CAVEATS.txt file in the source distribution.
.SH AUTHORS
 Jan "mpease" Duepmeier <me at mpease dot de>  
 Fabian "cbdev" Stumpf <fjs at fabianstumpf dot de>  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Online documentation and homepage at http://cmail.rocks/
.PP
.BR cmail-admin-address (8),
.BR cmail-admin-smtpd (8),
.BR cmail-admin-popd (8),
.BR cmail-smtpd (8),
.BR cmail-popd (8),
.BR cmail-dispatchd (8),
.BR cmail-master-database (5)

